# Beginning Android Games
Studying this book for making android applications and games

## Project Structure
- `src/` - Contains all your Java source files
- `gen/` - All source files generated by the Android build system (not to be touched)
- `assets/` - All files your application needs (configuration, audio, images)
- `bin/` - Holds compiled code ready to be deployed
- `libs/` - Any additional JAR files we might need to depend on
- `res/` - Any resources your application might need like icons, strings, UI layouts in XML
- `AndroidManifest.xml` - Describes your application, activities and services, minimum and target Android version, needed permissions.

## Game Design
Before diving into your code, you should plan what you're going to do first.
- Core game mechanics, including a level concept if applicable
- Rough backstory with the main characters
- List of items, power-ups, other things that modify the characters, mechanics, or environment.
- Rough sketch of the graphics style based on the backstory and characters
- Sketches of all the screens involved, diagrams of transitions between screens and transition triggers (ex: game over state)

## Basic Game Framework
Every game needs a basic game framework to be based on. Mostly split up in different modules. Each of these modules is composed of one or more interfaces.
- `Application and Window management` - responsible for creating a window and coping with things like closing the window or pausing/resuming application in Android.
- `Input` - related to window management module, keeps track of user input (touch, keys, periphery, accelerometer)
- `File I/O` - allows to get the bytes of our assets into the program from disk
- `Graphics` - most complex module, loading graphics and drawing on screen
- `Audio` - loading and playing sounds and music
- `Game framework` - ties all the above together, provides easy-to-use base for writing games

## Implementing A Game
Let's identify what tasks have to be performed by our game
- Game is built into different screens. Each screen performs same tasks:
  - evaluate user input
  - apply input to state of screen
  - rendering scene
- Screens need to be managed:
  - keep track of current screen
  - transition to a new screen (destroy old screen, setup new screen as current)
- Game needs to grant screens access to different modules:
  - graphics
  - audio
  - input
  - ...
- Current screen needs to be updated in real time
- Time span between first and last frame
- Keeping track of current window state:
  - paused
  - resumed
- Framework will deal with setup

## Frame Rate-Independent Movement
When not applied, the game speed will be decided by the speed of your device.
Which will make it that the application runs on different speeds on each device.

**Solution:** instead of moving an object based on a fixed amount each frame, we specify the movement speed in units/s.

Example of an object moving at 50px/s
```java
@override
public void update(float deltaTime) {
  x += 50 * deltaTime;
  if (x > 100)
    x = 0;
}
```

## The Manifest File
- `Activities` - user-facing components that present a UI for interaction
- `Services` - processes that work in the background and don't have a visible UI
- `Content providers` - makes parts of your application data available to other application
- `Intents` - messages created by system or applications. Notify us of system events. (SD card removed, USB connected) Intents are also used for starting components of our application, such as activities. Opening photo gallery to display image, start camera app.
- `Broadcast receivers` - React to specific intents, might execute an action. (starting specific activity, sending another intent to system)
- Version of app as displayed and used on Google Play
- Android versions compatible
- HW profiles or requirements
- Permissions for using specific components
